2015-05-09 - cocoaconf pdx/slides.md, before:

footer: Curt Clifton—The Omni Group. May 9, 2015, CocoaConf PDX
slidenumbers: true

^ Sample presenter notes.

^ Are we good?

![fit](testImage.png)

---

# [fit] Developing with
# [fit] WatchKit 1.0

^ [put this slide up at end of break]

^ [transition to introduce yourself]

---

# Developing with WatchKit 1.0

## Curt Clifton, The Omni Group

### @curtclifton

### curtclifton.net

---

# Outline

- Watch app parts
- Conceptual model
- Syncing data with Apple Watch
- Debugging Apple Watch apps
- Provisioning
- Some challenges
- Other resources

^ [Discuss in terms of your goals for them leaving the talk]

---

# [fit] Watch App
# [fit] Parts

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

^ [builds on subsequent slides]

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.xw

![original fill](Notifications.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](GlanceSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](MainAppSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](HandoffSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

# [fit] Conceptual
# [fit] Model

---

## In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

^ WatchKit extension and Watch app resources are bundled with your iPhone app (like Today and Sharing extensions and custom keyboards)

---

## In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

![original](WhatGoesWhere.png)

^ iPhone first

^ then watch

^ then generated images

^ “So the first thing to remember is that you’re writing code that runs on the iPhone. Almost all assets on the watch are put there statically at install time.”

^ The next piece of the conceptual model is that you have a limited set of classes to work with. In fact…

---

## All the WatchKit classes fit on one slide that you can read.

^ [beat]

---

## All the WatchKit classes fit on one slide that you can read.

![original](WatchKitClasses.png)

^ “but I don’t expect you to.”

^ A couple of interface controllers. You’ll have one for each screen in your watch app.

^ One device class that vends a singleton. Can get device size and cache images with this.

^ All the rest are the classes for building your UI that David talks about.

^ “But what are these classes good for if we can’t run code on the watch?”

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

![original](ProxyObjects.png) 

^ [Quick hand-wavy explanation of the diagram. Details on next slide.]

^ The Apple docs say, “Interface objects are not views. They are proxy objects that communicate wirelessly with the actual views used to implement your UI on Apple Watch.”

^ “So what can you do with these objects? Let’s look at the methods available on WKInterfaceLabel.”

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

![original](ProxyObjectsDetails.png)

^ setters, not properties!

---

# Conceptual Model

- In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

- All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

^ summarize

---

# [fit] Sample
# [fit] App

^ [Fire up the WatchApp and give a brief demo of using it. Stay away from the code]

^ Note that the code is on github

---

# [fit] Syncing Data
# [fit] with Apple Watch

^ Next I want to talk about syncing data with Apple Watch…

---

# Your watch extension is a separate process from your iPhone app; you just signed up for data syncing.

^ even if you don't have a "cloud-based" application, almost anything interesting is going to have to share data

^ and even if you do have a cloud app…

---

# Watch apps die easily; network operations are right out.[^1]

![fit right](PythonHandGrenade.jpg)

[^1]: [Monty Python and the Holy Grail](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0071853/)

^ So what can we do? …

---

# What’s a developer to do?

- File coordination? [Nope.](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/technotes/tn2408/_index.html)
- [App Group entitlement and user defaults](http://www.atomicbird.com/blog/sharing-with-app-extensions)
- [Shared CoreData database](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24641768/accessing-core-data-sql-database-in-ios-8-extension-sharing-data-between-app-an)
- [Darwin Notifications—MMWormhole](http://blog.consumedbycode.com/data-synchronization-with-watchkit/)
- Shared SQLite database
- Seed file & callbacks

^ If we can't use network operations, what are our choices?

^ [Review the issues and choices, but don’t dive into code yet.]

---

# Cartoon of the Day

^ Before turning to more technical details, it’s probably helpful to understand my state of mind when implementing the code…

---

# Cartoon of the Day[^2]

![inline](nerd_sniping.png)

^ “I first saw this problem on the Google Labs Aptitude Test. A professor and I filled a blackboard without getting anywhere. Have fun.”

[^2]: [https://xkcd.com/356/](https://xkcd.com/356/)

---

# [fit] Syncing Using Seed File & Callbacks 

![original](SeedFileSyncing.png)

^ note that time flows down the page

^ [talk through the steps chronologically]

^ Let’s take a look at this in code. This should also be a good example of debugging WatchKit apps.

^ [See presenter’s script]

---

# Syncing Data with Apple Watch

- Your watch extension is a separate process from your iPhone app; you just signed up for data syncing.
- Watch apps die easily; network operations are right out.

^ summarize

---

# [fit] Debugging Apple Watch Apps

- Run iPhone app first
- Open Watch “external display”
- Launch the WatchKit app from Xcode
- Launch the iPhone app from Springboard
- In Xcode, connect to the iPhone app
- Use Console to watch Simulator’s system log

^ Just a summary of the demo for reference on the steps.

---

# [fit] Provisioning

![inline](Provisioning.png)

^ Watch UUID in Devices
^ Separate bundle IDs for each target
^ Set the signing identities for each target

---

# [fit] Challenges

^ I wanted to briefly mention some of the challenges I had implementing the demo app…

---

# Challenges

- Sending UI commands to non-active controls
- Using shared frameworks
- Selecting watch menu items crashes the simulator eventually
- No auto layout?
- Notifications while watch app is running?
 
^ [If OK on time, show code for first two items.]

^ [If swimming in time, demo coding and running dynamic notification]

^ On the iPhone, if a notification arrives while your app is foregrounded, the system doesn't present the notification, it just calls a method on your app delegate. What's going to happen on the Watch? (There's a method that might be called on the watch, but the docs are unclear and we can't test it.)

---

# [fit] Useful
# [fit] Resources

^ These are some resources I've found handy.

^ Links will be in the slides posted later

^ [Don't read 'em. If time allows, discuss some highlights, otherwise click through]

---

# From Apple

- [Dev and design resources](http://developer.apple.com/watchkit/)
- [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/watch/human-interface-guidelines/)
- [Marketing site](http://www.apple.com/watch/)
- [“Secret” watch kit tips](https://devforums.apple.com/thread/264473?tstart=0)

---

# From Others

- [“As I Learn WatchKit”](http://david-smith.org/watchkit/) — David Smith
 - [“Thinking about Load Time”](http://david-smith.org/blog/2015/04/30/ailw-thinking-about-load-time/)
- [“Architecting Your App for WatchKit”](http://realm.io/news/architecting-app-apple-watch-natashatherobot) — Natasha Murashev
- [Apple Watch Code Signing](http://blog.jaredsinclair.com/post/117350678170/jareds-code-signing-tips-apple-watch-edition) — Jared Sinclair
- [WatchKit Development Tips](http://blog.mikeswanson.com/post/117807821714/watchkit-development-tips) — Mike Swanson

---

# Wish List

- Direct access to the Taptic Engine
- iPhone-free 3<sup>rd</sup> party code
- API for digital crown

---

# [fit]Thanks!

- @curtclifton
- [curtclifton.net](http://www.curtclifton.net)
- [https://github.com/curtclifton/timerity](https://github.com/curtclifton/timerity)

Commit message:

Fixed provisioning slide by including it as part of Challenges. Switched the Challenges section to actionable sentences instead of bullet points. Dropped some of the challenges that aren't so challenging.
Dropped in some images to support Shared Frameworks discussion, though those aren't cleaned up yet.

2015-05-09 - cocoaconf pdx/slides.md, after:

footer: Curt Clifton—The Omni Group. May 9, 2015, CocoaConf PDX
slidenumbers: true

^ Sample presenter notes.

^ Are we good?

![fit](testImage.png)

---

# [fit] Developing with
# [fit] WatchKit 1.0

^ [put this slide up at end of break]

^ [transition to introduce yourself]

---

# Developing with WatchKit 1.0

## Curt Clifton, The Omni Group

### @curtclifton

### curtclifton.net

---

# Outline

- Watch app parts
- Conceptual model
- Syncing data with Apple Watch
- Debugging Apple Watch apps
- Some challenges
- Other resources

^ [Discuss in terms of your goals for them leaving the talk]

---

# [fit] Watch App
# [fit] Parts

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

^ [builds on subsequent slides]

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.xw

![original fill](Notifications.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](GlanceSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](MainAppSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

## Your Watch app can include notifications, glances, the main app, and handoff.

![original fill](HandoffSlide.png)

^ describe each piece
^ for each, discuss what you need to do as a dev
^ fast in, fast out

---

# [fit] Conceptual
# [fit] Model

---

## In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

^ WatchKit extension and Watch app resources are bundled with your iPhone app (like Today and Sharing extensions and custom keyboards)

---

## In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

![original](WhatGoesWhere.png)

^ iPhone first

^ then watch

^ then generated images

^ “So the first thing to remember is that you’re writing code that runs on the iPhone. Almost all assets on the watch are put there statically at install time.”

^ The next piece of the conceptual model is that you have a limited set of classes to work with. In fact…

---

## All the WatchKit classes fit on one slide that you can read.

^ [beat]

---

## All the WatchKit classes fit on one slide that you can read.

![original](WatchKitClasses.png)

^ “but I don’t expect you to.”

^ A couple of interface controllers. You’ll have one for each screen in your watch app.

^ One device class that vends a singleton. Can get device size and cache images with this.

^ All the rest are the classes for building your UI that David talks about.

^ “But what are these classes good for if we can’t run code on the watch?”

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

![original](ProxyObjects.png) 

^ [Quick hand-wavy explanation of the diagram. Details on next slide.]

^ The Apple docs say, “Interface objects are not views. They are proxy objects that communicate wirelessly with the actual views used to implement your UI on Apple Watch.”

^ “So what can you do with these objects? Let’s look at the methods available on WKInterfaceLabel.”

---

## All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

![original](ProxyObjectsDetails.png)

^ setters, not properties!

---

# Conceptual Model

- In WatchKit 1.0 your code *runs* in an extension *on the iPhone*.

- All the WKInterfaceObjects are proxies for views on the watch.

^ summarize

---

# [fit] Sample
# [fit] App

^ [Fire up the WatchApp and give a brief demo of using it. Stay away from the code]

^ Note that the code is on github

---

# [fit] Syncing Data
# [fit] with Apple Watch

^ Next I want to talk about syncing data with Apple Watch…

---

# Your watch extension is a separate process from your iPhone app; you just signed up for data syncing.

^ even if you don't have a "cloud-based" application, almost anything interesting is going to have to share data

^ and even if you do have a cloud app…

---

# Watch apps die easily; network operations are right out.[^1]

![fit right](PythonHandGrenade.jpg)

[^1]: [Monty Python and the Holy Grail](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0071853/)

^ So what can we do? …

---

# What’s a developer to do?

- File coordination? [Nope.](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/technotes/tn2408/_index.html)
- [App Group entitlement and user defaults](http://www.atomicbird.com/blog/sharing-with-app-extensions)
- [Shared CoreData database](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24641768/accessing-core-data-sql-database-in-ios-8-extension-sharing-data-between-app-an)
- [Darwin Notifications—MMWormhole](http://blog.consumedbycode.com/data-synchronization-with-watchkit/)
- Shared SQLite database
- Seed file & callbacks

^ If we can't use network operations, what are our choices?

^ [Review the issues and choices, but don’t dive into code yet.]

---

# Cartoon of the Day

^ Before turning to more technical details, it’s probably helpful to understand my state of mind when implementing the code…

---

# Cartoon of the Day[^2]

![inline](nerd_sniping.png)

^ “I first saw this problem on the Google Labs Aptitude Test. A professor and I filled a blackboard without getting anywhere. Have fun.”

[^2]: [https://xkcd.com/356/](https://xkcd.com/356/)

---

# [fit] Syncing Using Seed File & Callbacks 

![original](SeedFileSyncing.png)

^ note that time flows down the page

^ [talk through the steps chronologically]

^ Let’s take a look at this in code. This should also be a good example of debugging WatchKit apps.

^ [See presenter’s script]

---

# Syncing Data with Apple Watch

- Your watch extension is a separate process from your iPhone app; you just signed up for data syncing.
- Watch apps die easily; network operations are right out.

^ summarize

---

# [fit] Debugging Apple Watch Apps

- Run iPhone app first
- Open Watch “external display”
- Launch the WatchKit app from Xcode
- Launch the iPhone app from Springboard
- In Xcode, connect to the iPhone app
- Use Console to watch Simulator’s system log

^ Just a summary of the demo for reference on the steps.

---

# [fit] Challenges

^ I wanted to briefly mention some of the challenges I had implementing the demo app…

---

# You need to provision your Apple Watch and configure (at least) three targets.

![inline](Provisioning.png)

^ Watch UUID in Devices
^ Separate bundle IDs for each target
^ Set the signing identities for each target

---

## WKInterface objects silently ignore commands if their proxied views aren't active.

^ This is especially challenging given that you need to also avoid sending commands more than once.

^ [If OK on time, show code.]

---

## Shared frameworks help encapsulate your data model but require some initial configuration work.

![inline fill](SharedData1.png)![inline fill](SharedData2.png)
![inline fill](SharedData3.png)![inline fill](SharedData4.png)

^ [[[If you have time for this, make a series of images using Graffle's zoom feature to highlight the key bits.

---

# [fit] Useful
# [fit] Resources

^ These are some resources I've found handy.

^ Links will be in the slides posted later

^ [Don't read 'em. If time allows, discuss some highlights, otherwise click through]

---

# From Apple

- [Dev and design resources](http://developer.apple.com/watchkit/)
- [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/watch/human-interface-guidelines/)
- [Marketing site](http://www.apple.com/watch/)
- [“Secret” watch kit tips](https://devforums.apple.com/thread/264473?tstart=0)

---

# From Others

- [“As I Learn WatchKit”](http://david-smith.org/watchkit/) — David Smith
 - [“Thinking about Load Time”](http://david-smith.org/blog/2015/04/30/ailw-thinking-about-load-time/)
- [“Architecting Your App for WatchKit”](http://realm.io/news/architecting-app-apple-watch-natashatherobot) — Natasha Murashev
- [Apple Watch Code Signing](http://blog.jaredsinclair.com/post/117350678170/jareds-code-signing-tips-apple-watch-edition) — Jared Sinclair
- [WatchKit Development Tips](http://blog.mikeswanson.com/post/117807821714/watchkit-development-tips) — Mike Swanson

---

# Wish List

- Direct access to the Taptic Engine
- iPhone-free 3<sup>rd</sup> party code
- API for digital crown

---

# [fit]Thanks!

- @curtclifton
- [curtclifton.net](http://www.curtclifton.net)
- [https://github.com/curtclifton/timerity](https://github.com/curtclifton/timerity)
